First batch for the new components doc (#24571)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/public/components/using-components.md

# Using components

> We already cover using components within other components in the [create components page](creating-components.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We already cover using components within other components in the [create components page](creating-components.md).
```
```suggestion
Using components within other components is covered on the [create components page](creating-components.md).
```

> Now let's explore how to use them in your binaries. One of the core idea behind the components design is to be able to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's explore how to use components in your binaries. One of the core idea behind component design is to be able to
```

> easily create new binaries for customers by aggregating components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create new binaries for customers by aggregating components.
```

## the `cmd` folder

> All `main` function and binary entry points should be in the `cmd` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All `main` functions and binary entry points should be in the `cmd` folder.
```

> The `cmd` folder use the following hierarchy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cmd` folder uses the following hierarchy:
```

```
cmd /
    <binary name> /

>         main.go                   <-- The entry points from you binary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        main.go                   <-- The entry points from your binary
```

>         subcommands /             <-- All subcommand for you binary CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        subcommands /             <-- All subcommand for your binary CLI
```

            <subcommand name> /   <-- The code specific to a single subcommand
                command.go
                command_test.go
```

> Let's say we add a `test` command in `agent` CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Say you want to add a `test` command to the `agent` CLI.
```

> We would create the following file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You would create the following file:
```

=== ":octicons-file-code-16: cmd/agent/subcommands/test/command.go"
    ```go
    package test

    import (
    // [...]
    )

    // Commands returns a slice of subcommands for the 'agent' command.
    //

>     // The agent uses "cobra" to create its CLI. The command method is your entrypoint. Here we're going to create a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // The Agent uses "cobra" to create its CLI. The command method is your entrypoint. Here, you're going to create a single
```

    // command.
    func Commands(globalParams *command.GlobalParams) []*cobra.Command {
        cmd := &cobra.Command{
            Use:   "test",
            Short: "a test command for the Agent",
            Long:  ``,
            RunE: func(_ *cobra.Command, _ []string) error {
                return fxutil.OneShot(
                    <callback>,
                    <list of dependencies>.
                )
            },
        }

        return []*cobra.Command{cmd}
    }
    ```

> The code above creates a test command that does nothing. You can see we're using the `fxutil.OneShot` helpers. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above creates a test command that does nothing. As you can see, `fxutil.OneShot` helpers are being used. These
```

helpers will initialize an `Fx` app for us with all the wanted dependencies. The next section explain how to request a
dependency.

## Importing components

> The `fxutil.OneShot` will take a list of components and give them to `Fx`. It's important to understanding that this
> will only tell `Fx` how to create types when they're needed. This alone will do nothing more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fxutil.OneShot` takes a list of components and gives them to Fx. Note that this only tells Fx how to create types when they're needed. This does not do anything else.
```

> In order for a components to be instantiated it needs to be required:

Reviewer: Also, is the following list an AND or an OR situation?

> + As a parameter for the `callback` function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Required as a parameter by the `callback` function
```

+ As dependencies from other components already marked for instantiation

> + Directly asked for by using `fx.Invoke`. More on this in [fx page](fx.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Directly asked for by using `fx.Invoke`. More on this on the [Fx page](fx.md).
```

Let's require the `log` components:

```go
import (
    // First let's import the FX wrapper to require it
    logfx "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/log/fx"
    // Then the logger interface to use it
    log "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/log/def"
)

// [...]
    return fxutil.OneShot(
        myTestCallback, // The function to call from fxutil.OneShot
        logfx.Module(), // This will tell FX how to create the `log.Component`
    )
// [...]

func myTestCallback(logger log.Component) {
    logger.Info("some message")
}
```

## Importing bundles

> Now let's say we want to include the core bundle instead. The core bundle offers many basic features (logger, config,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's say you want to include the core bundle instead. The core bundle offers many basic features (logger, config,
```

telemetry, flare, ...).

```go
import (
    // We import the core bundle
    core "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core"

    // Then the interfaces we want to use
    config "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/config/def"
)

// [...]
    return fxutil.OneShot(
        myTestCallback, // The function to call from fxutil.OneShot
        core.Bundle(),  // This will tell FX how to create the all the components included in the bundle
    )
// [...]

func myTestCallback(conf config.Component) {
    api_key := conf.GetString("api_key")

    // [...]
}
```

> It's very important to understand that since `myTestCallback` only uses the `config.Component` not all components from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's very important to understand that since `myTestCallback` only uses the `config.Component`, not all components from
```

> the `core` bundle was instantiated ! The `core.Bundle` instruct `Fx` how to create components but only the ones required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `core` bundle were instantiated ! The `core.Bundle` instructs `Fx` how to create components but only the ones required
```

> the `core` bundle were instantiated ! The `core.Bundle` instructs `Fx` how to create components but only the ones required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `core` bundle are instantiated! The `core.Bundle` instructs Fx how to create components, but only the ones required
```

are created.

> In our example, the `config.Component` might have dozens of dependencies instantiated from the core bundle. `Fx` handles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, the `config.Component` might have dozens of dependencies instantiated from the core bundle. Fx handles
```

> all of this for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all of this.
```

## Using non-component types with Fx

> As our migration to components is not finished you might need to manually instruct `Fx` on how to create certain types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your migration to components is not finished, you might need to manually instruct Fx on how to create certain types.
```

You will need to use `fx.Provide` for this. More details can be found [here](fx.md).

But here is a quick example:

```go
import (

>     logfx "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/log/fx"

Reviewer 2: This makes me think: what if we require all `fx` packages to alias the interface type. So `fx/fx.go` would contain `type Component = def.Compoent`. That would keep type safety, while removing one import, and simplifying the alias usage in clients like this.

Author: def will also contain all the public types returned/used by the interface. I don't think we want to start down the aliasing path.

    log "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/log/def"
)

// a non-component type
type custom struct {}

// [...]
    return fxutil.OneShot(
        myTestCallback,
        logfx.Module(),

        // fx.Provide registers a function providing a type into Fx. Any time this is needed, Fx will use it.
        fx.Provide(func() custom {
            return custom{}
        }),
    )
// [...]

// Here our function uses component and non-component type, both provided by Fx.
func myTestCallback(logger log.Component, c custom) {
    logger.Info("Custom type: %v", c)
}
```

!!! Info

>     This means that components can depend on non components type too (as long as the main instruct Fx how to create them).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This means that components can depend on non-component types too (as long as the main instruct Fx how to create them).
```

There's a verb missing in the parenthetical

    //
    // The Agent uses "cobra" to create its CLI. The command method is your entrypoint. Here, you're going to create a single
    // command.
    func Commands(globalParams *command.GlobalParams) []*cobra.Command {
        cmd := &cobra.Command{
            Use:   "test",
            Short: "a test command for the Agent",
            Long:  ``,
            RunE: func(_ *cobra.Command, _ []string) error {
                return fxutil.OneShot(
                    <callback>,
                    <list of dependencies>.
                )
            },
        }

        return []*cobra.Command{cmd}
    }
    ```

The code above creates a test command that does nothing. As you can see, `fxutil.OneShot` helpers are being used. These
helpers initialize an Fx app with all the wanted dependencies. 

The next section explains how to request a
dependency.

## Importing components

The `fxutil.OneShot` takes a list of components and gives them to Fx. Note that this only tells Fx how to create types when they're needed. This does not do anything else.

In order for a components to be instantiated it needs to be required:

> + Required as a parameter by the `callback` function

Reviewer 3: You may give `fx.Supply` as an example because `callback` is a very general term.

    logger.Info("some message")
}
```

## Importing bundles

Now let's say you want to include the core bundle instead. The core bundle offers many basic features (logger, config,
telemetry, flare, ...).

```go
import (
    // We import the core bundle
    core "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core"

    // Then the interfaces we want to use
    config "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/config/def"
)

// [...]
    return fxutil.OneShot(
        myTestCallback, // The function to call from fxutil.OneShot
        core.Bundle(),  // This will tell FX how to create the all the components included in the bundle
    )
// [...]

func myTestCallback(conf config.Component) {
    api_key := conf.GetString("api_key")

    // [...]
}
```

It's very important to understand that since `myTestCallback` only uses the `config.Component`, not all components from
the `core` bundle are instantiated! The `core.Bundle` instructs Fx how to create components, but only the ones required
are created.

In our example, the `config.Component` might have dozens of dependencies instantiated from the core bundle. Fx handles
all of this.

## Using non-component types with Fx

> As your migration to components is not finished, you might need to manually instruct Fx on how to create certain types.

Reviewer 3: I think it should be avoided (let's try to discuss this topic).
